Chloe Lannert: Hang on
Chloe Lannert: a ribbon.
Chloe Lannert: So
Chloe Lannert: good, awesome
Chloe Lannert: one of the phone number.
Chloe Lannert: I can just move this closer.
Chloe Lannert: I can. I can just project.
Chloe Lannert: I didn't turn on the whole thing.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, fancy a recording. Okay, beautiful. How are you all feeling about Demo Day?
Chloe Lannert: So this workshop is normally given by Anthony Alibra, the program manager at Dexter, Chicago.
Chloe Lannert: He's a d 1 pitcher at Northwestern University, and he would give this talk based on his like very, very cool, athletic career. Well, he's a very cool guy. He's also
Chloe Lannert: he's also a very busy guy.
Chloe Lannert: and with apps closing for the next cohort he unfortunately couldn't make it. But luckily you brought me my qualifications.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. I came with her seats I was on ski in high school, each 15 in a full suit at 6 Am. On a Saturday. I hated it. The schedule was crazy. I procrastinated relentlessly, but learned some really great last minute memorization techniques which you should ask me about later. And then, I did rowing. Is that how you do that?
Chloe Lannert: Voiceovers for everybody's videos? Yeah, yeah, this machine, the Npr voice
Chloe Lannert: and then I I did rowing. So in those big, long rowing votes I was the short person in the back who steered the vote and yelled at everyone, it was my thing to the point of being both the title of my college essay and my Lc. Are both a big mouth.
Chloe Lannert: My articles, Incorporation, Big Mouth, Llc. Delaware.
Chloe Lannert: in high school I was set to go to Nationals. Covid ruined it colleges were paying to fly me out and visit their teams, and I was being recruited. Turned down some offers and C double a. And Ira regulations, and Covid messed up some others but I really really loved it, and was pretty good at it. In college I traveled all over the Uk Coxing, from Inverness to London, and I hosted the largest collegiata in Europe, which was flux.
Chloe Lannert: and a rowing spring race is weirdly similar to y'all's Demo day pitches. There's money on the line. For me. It was a full set of a boat and ores which landed around $80,000. For you guys, potential investment money the whole situation is a team effort. But in the moment only one person is in charge. So the rowers can't see. I don't know if you can see the boats moving forward. I'm the only person who could see the course. And for you guys, you've only got one person on stage representing all of your work.
Chloe Lannert: and you have to communicate an enormous amount of information. And in an incredibly short amount of time.
Chloe Lannert: yeah, that's me. And what is this word
Chloe Lannert: that boat was 16. Each of the oars was $500 each, and then you've got the rigors. Other fun stuff
Chloe Lannert: word. Oh, Coxen, yeah, that was my role. That's what it's called.
Chloe Lannert: and a row base is also conveniently right around 6 min, and just like your pitches represents weeks, once years of work.
Chloe Lannert: So this is a thought exercise that Anthony likes to do. I'm going to have you all take a look at this picture. Find it in your head
Chloe Lannert: and then close your eyes.
Chloe Lannert: Little visualization thing here that we gave.
Chloe Lannert: I want you to imagine that you are in the block. 15 auditorium.
Chloe Lannert: You're sitting in the front row, and there's an empty seat next to you.
Chloe Lannert: Watch as the founder before you is just finishing their closing statement
Chloe Lannert: start to walk off the stage, and the music you chose comes on.
Chloe Lannert: I want you to hear it
Chloe Lannert: as you get up and start to walk on stage. You can hear the buzz and muttering of the over 300 people there to watch.
Chloe Lannert: As you walk into the spotlight in the dimly lit room.
Chloe Lannert: You reach your position, the music fades and the room goes silent.
Chloe Lannert: All eyes are directly on you.
Chloe Lannert: Game time.
Chloe Lannert: Alright! Open your eyes.
Chloe Lannert: What do you feel
Chloe Lannert: at zoom is
Chloe Lannert: the next one so excited? Yeah, so
Chloe Lannert: fear has some physical symptoms. Let's
Chloe Lannert: yep.
Chloe Lannert: What what do you physically feel when you're experiencing that fear that nervousness? Have you breathing?
Chloe Lannert: Benching?
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. Heat, like sweating. Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: yeah. Summat rooms. Yeah. Go to the next one. So all of these can be some symptoms, some physical symptoms that you're feeling in that moment
Chloe Lannert: next slide.
Chloe Lannert: If you felt those things good, you should. Or if you're about, you're human, it's your body's stress response. When you're in a stressful situation, your body releases epinephrine, adrenaline and cortisol
Chloe Lannert: they release into your bloodstream, and they affect how you feel and how you operate.
Chloe Lannert: It's not just herbs. These hormones materially alter your physiological state
Chloe Lannert: stomach turning. That's your digestion, slowing down to conserve energy. That's breathing that's upping your oxygen intake and your accelerated heart rate. That's providing your muscles and brain with this extra oxygen
Chloe Lannert: sweating, cooling you off while you exert more energy.
Chloe Lannert: Why, stress response is primal.
Chloe Lannert: We evolved
Chloe Lannert: and we evolved these physiological responses.
Chloe Lannert: Good. So that's that's your body. Responding to threats, they prepare your body to. Sorry I had to. That's that's your fight or flight. If you weren't well equipped to run when you saw Bear back in back in the day wouldn't make it very far, and you wouldn't be able to pass along your genes, and I'm sure fight or flight is very familiar the same hormones that prepared you to run from a bear, also prepare you to fight for your food.
Chloe Lannert: The state of hormonal elevation is super super important.
Chloe Lannert: So let's go back to those symptoms.
Chloe Lannert: The way that you feel when you're anxious from a perceived threat is actually the same state that your body goes into when you feel excitement, just like our ancestors were scared to see bears. They were excited to see food, and they had to fight for it.
Chloe Lannert: When people say they're nervous for a big performance, or they had an adrenaline rush from an exciting activity. They rarely describe them in the same way, but physiologically they're almost entirely the same with the little added difference of dopamine.
Chloe Lannert: Well, it's not the most comfortable feeling your body. Stress response is kind of like a superpower. It prepares your body and mind to operate at a high level when you need it the most.
Chloe Lannert: So when you're in this height state you have a whole bunch of options. I'm gonna share with you from both me and Anthony. But it's important to pay attention to what works for your body and use the mental language that makes sense for you. Everyone's gonna be different.
Chloe Lannert: So here's what Anthony thinks about it when he's throwing a season deciding game. That's how he kind of prepares himself to go into the moment. He leads with self-understanding.
Chloe Lannert: So he like your body, is trying to protect you. It's that fight or flight response. Your body and mind are in a heightened state. There's that adrenaline and that cortisol, and he ends with redirection, focused and grounding
Chloe Lannert: your physiological state does not change your tasks, and you are prepared.
Chloe Lannert: So my approach is a little less polished. But it's important to show different variations of how people go into stressful situations, how I do it is probably best described as framing. But I, the mental language that works for me is self gaslighting. It's dumb, but it's how it makes sense for me.
Chloe Lannert: In some way I treat it like I'm smarter than my monkey brain, and just choose to put the thoughts I want over the thoughts that I have. It works for me.
Chloe Lannert: for you. This could look like reframing pressure as preparedness. So instead of thinking, I've spent months or years working on this business, there's so much riding on this, treating it as pressure, you could try to reframe it. As I've spent months or years working with this on this business, I'm so excited to share it with the world.
Chloe Lannert: So for me, that super works. Another thing that really really works for me is visualization within that whole self gaslighting framework. The night before every race and like, for there's like 5 years straight. Every single race. I would sit down with my race plan for you like a script and a map of my race course, for you could be a picture of the stage like we just did in that thought exercise.
Chloe Lannert: and I would close my eyes and visualize the entire race, start to finish, and a 6 min race could take me like 20 or 30 min to visualize. It was a bit ridiculous, but just like the exercise we did earlier I would put myself at the starting line.
Chloe Lannert: I would think about everything I would hear. Everything, I would say everything would feel like the tension in my back, I would put myself in that situation
Chloe Lannert: and visualize the entire race through even to the feeling of relief as I cross the finish lines.
Chloe Lannert: So by the time I had gotten to the starting line I felt like I had already done the race like I'd already experienced it.
Chloe Lannert: and all the nervous energy was easily rechanneled into excitement for something that in my head had already happened. Self gas lighting. I highly recommend visualization. If you don't already do it, it turns all that uncertainty and pressure in your brain into a plan.
Chloe Lannert: But it's not perfect.
Chloe Lannert: My way of thinking about it may super not work for you, and Anthony's might not either.
Chloe Lannert: The goal in sharing room is to inspire you to consider how we approach stressful situations and maybe give you something to work from.
Chloe Lannert: Human stress. Responses aren't perfect, either. Our bodies are in need of sort of a software Update 1,000 years overdue. We don't face the same threats today as we used to, and we don't get excited by all the same things, either.
Chloe Lannert: It turns out that the ideal state for running and fighting is not the same ideal state for public speaking or pitching to investors.
Chloe Lannert: How many cavemen had to clearly and effectively explain their go-to-market strategy while running from a pack of wolves. How many people had to think about pushing costum on their mobile? They were throwing spears at a year.
Chloe Lannert: So how do we adjust?
Chloe Lannert: How do we make the most of the benefits of this elevated state while minimizing the negatives? The worst thing to do is, try to fight it. Can't.
Chloe Lannert: The hormones are in your blood just like general and anesthesia, if you've ever had it. Tried to bite it like you just can't. It's there. It's in your body.
Chloe Lannert: The hormones are there, and they will work the way they're supposed to.
Chloe Lannert: and you don't want to trick yourself into not having this response either. If you're focused on getting rid of the anxiety you're not focused on the task at hand.
Chloe Lannert: So
Chloe Lannert: generally 2 camps people fall into when responding to stress. And it's important to know sort of which one you are. So you can learn how to attack it.
Chloe Lannert: When faced with stress and anxiety. Some people are more prone to getting sped up. That's me. These people try to do and think about everything at once, thinking 10 steps ahead to try to be in control of the situation. On the other hand, others respond by shutting down.
Chloe Lannert: People often experience their minds going blank, a sort of freeze response, and they try to push away the anxiety and get rid of it.
Chloe Lannert: If you recognize your response, it can help you understand, when it's happening to you. And both both types of people can use similar strategies to help sort of reel themselves back in.
Chloe Lannert: Like I mentioned earlier. The biggest problem people run into is that they focus so much on their stress response that they get sped up or they freeze. And that's okay. And it's normal. But the goal is to pull yourself back into the moment. Take advantage of your mind's increased focus and lock in on the task at hand.
Chloe Lannert: Pull yourself back onto the next step you need to take.
Chloe Lannert: Here's 1 option. I probably can do it
Chloe Lannert: breathing is critical. We hear it all the time, but there's more to it. Taking a deep breath all the way in, and all the way out, longer exhale than inhale, is a way to bring yourself into a calmer state.
Chloe Lannert: similar to the way that the stress hormones physioth theologically affect you. This also materially alters your body's safe.
Chloe Lannert: If you do it. Your body has no choice now.
Chloe Lannert: relaxing your muscles also does the same thing. You might need active or tense muscles to run from a bear, but you don't need them to pitch. I usually carry the tension in my shoulders. It really helps to like actively release.
Chloe Lannert: And it signals to my body that it's okay to relax.
Chloe Lannert: Finally, pull your focus back in like we were talking about earlier. Don't try to boil the ocean. Don't try to do 10 things at once, or answer all your Eir questions at the same time
Chloe Lannert: focus only on the next white-size step.
Chloe Lannert: For me it could be the next turn in the river for, you guys, it could be the next sentence of your pitch. Trust that your preparation will take you from there
Chloe Lannert: finally. Always remember that you are in control. Time isn't going to speed up on you, and it won't stop for you, either. You are in full control to dictate the pace as you see fit.
Chloe Lannert: make sure to slow down. If you feel things are going too fast, and don't be afraid to take a pause. If you need some more time to think
Chloe Lannert: alright round 2.
Chloe Lannert: Close your eyes.
Chloe Lannert: Same thing again.
Chloe Lannert: I want you to imagine that you were in the block. 15 auditorium.
Chloe Lannert: You're sitting on the side of the stage, and he watches the founder before you is just finishing that closing statement
Chloe Lannert: as they start to walk off the stage and the music he chose comes on.
Chloe Lannert: Get to get up and start to walk on stage, and you can hear the but buzz and muttering of the 300 plus people there to watch.
Chloe Lannert: As you walk into the spotlight in the dimly lit room
Chloe Lannert: and reach your position. The music face and the room goes silent.
Chloe Lannert: All eyes are directly on you.
Chloe Lannert: Now take note and acknowledge your state.
Chloe Lannert: Place that thought on a shelf.
Chloe Lannert: and accept that your body is reacting normally
Chloe Lannert: take a slow, deep breath on your time
Chloe Lannert: like a shoulder straps.
Chloe Lannert: Pull your focus onto the 1st sentence of your pitch.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, now it's game time.
Chloe Lannert: These mental reps are vital to training your body to perform under pressure. If any used to lay in bed at night and practice working himself up so he could calm himself back down. He doesn't recommend that for anyone who values good sleep.
Chloe Lannert: but the principle still applies for me that was covered by my full-race visualizations.
Chloe Lannert: just like you practice your pitch practice breathing and focus and anxiety, inducing situations. Even if they only exist in your head. It'll help you build this muscle like it's second nature
Chloe Lannert: game tons.
Chloe Lannert: This workshop is usually by our our teammate in Texas, Chicago, who, like always, says d 1 pitcher, and he kind of made this based on psychology. And then, when he wasn't able to come, oh, it was like, Well, I know psychology. Does anybody have any questions about
Chloe Lannert: use this call
Chloe Lannert: at 6 min we'll start. Find the next person something.
Chloe Lannert: So it's like at a time. It's important. We don't want to go all the way. And then people aren't going to be able to get there full time. So Q&A, that's sitting right? Yeah. So I guess to the time from you finishing, pitching, to sitting in the eir coming up.
Chloe Lannert: There's like a 10 second wiggle room pitch. I'll show you tomorrow in the dress, right.
Chloe Lannert: either, whether you're video or pitch. You go on stage during your welcome music. When your video is fine, you stand to the side and you watch it with everybody to increase engagement, and when you're pitching, whether it's 1st or second, you stand center stage.
Chloe Lannert: nothing's behind you, and then you walk over your work on stage, and you'll shake your hand, and then you sit.
Chloe Lannert: talk, show style, and 2 on tears.
Chloe Lannert: Other questions. Yeah, at the start of the pitch, do. We all kind of go on stage at the beginning. So we kind of.
Chloe Lannert: we have a visualization of how everyone looks when stage
Chloe Lannert: you get a full dress run where you can see the venue. But you don't like not everyone is brought up at once. If that if that's regress.
Chloe Lannert: yeah, we have a mic.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, do you have any to simply get derailed like our minds? And we're trying to take
Chloe Lannert: my, okay.
Chloe Lannert: my favorite way to sort of work to prevent. That is, when I'm memorizing things like it's really easy to chunk it into the sentences and think about it. Sentence at a time.
Chloe Lannert: But for me I would always get caught up between sentences and the way I would work around, that is, I would like memorize the sentences, and then practice having someone else read me the last 3 words of the sentence, and I needed to like speed, run to get to the next one, so I would like, do reps of those transitions between sentences until those like weren't as weak of points. I highly recommend, like, and do it out of order like memorize the transitions between sentences as much as you're memorizing the sentences
Chloe Lannert: themselves for the pitch that has saved me. But as far as getting derailed, Neil will be in the front row. Liliana will be just off to the side.
Chloe Lannert: Take a breather. It's like every pause you feel on stage is a fraction of a second to the audience like you. You will feel like you're up there like for 15 min, just like if you if you pause and it will be 2 seconds for the audience. So just don't freak out I like to physically imagine my script in front of me again with the visualization like. I will imagine the piece of paper that my script is on, and I will like find my place.
Chloe Lannert: It might not work for you. But just don't panic. No one else perceives it as nearly as big of a pause as you will the same thing actors do. So you memorize your queue for the next segment or sentence, like the last 2 to 3 words of this section before, so that you know what you just said, and you can always sign your place for the next part.
Chloe Lannert: and then, when you lose your place, just take a breath.
Chloe Lannert: A lot of you in our pitch practices. When you lose your place you like freak out. You don't want the audience to know, none of us know. So just pause and take a breath, and honestly, it's more alluring because it looks like you're taking a dramatic pause. And everyone's really listening. I promise you we've seen people do it. It looks like you have full command of the stage. It's totally fine, but if you freak out when you lose your place, then everyone will know.
Chloe Lannert: Just remain your like. Keep your composure practice losing your place like in practice. If you lose your place, don't just look at your steps. Pause and breathe
Chloe Lannert: like, Chloe said. It's only like a fraction of a second. You won't even see it on the recording, even though it'll feel like forever
Chloe Lannert: other questions for Chloe.
Chloe Lannert: You guys missed the the picture, and 1st sorry we recorded it for you. So the QA. Section is a little bit more relaxed because, like, you're biting like physically sitting. So you have more time to concentrate
Chloe Lannert: absolutely, and your eir has the ipad with your questions on it, and your eir will kind of clue you back in. If you get lost like they can give you more context clues. You can work with them to write your questions in a way so like, say, you have a question about your go to market strategy, and they're like 3 points. You wanna hit your eir can have like they can
Chloe Lannert: the next one. So say you get through 2 of the points, and you haven't hit the 3rd one. If you practice with your eir, and like kind of let them know that this tends. This transition to the 3rd point tends to be a weak point. They can have, like a little phrase, where they can sort of add a little bonus question where they're like. Oh, so what about this? And like? Give you the chance to finish your thought? The the QA.
Chloe Lannert: You also have the questions to like signal. What's next? It's you'll you'll be good in the er a bit
Chloe Lannert: on your left.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, where are the rest of us sitting?
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. So Ceos in the front row, co-founders behind them. 1, st 2 rows will be just like our team and the presenters.
Chloe Lannert: So you'll be rotating through. You'll get to watch everyone. You'll understand where you are. You're not in a green room in the dark. You get to experience the event as well.
Chloe Lannert: It's always like that. It's not like we're not going to an auditorium with like a big state. There's no vaccine.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, you might want to announce when addressers. Yeah, let's take a look. Yeah. Team 4, 9 to 1130 team, starboard, 11 to 1, 30 dress runs. Be there.
Chloe Lannert: you ready
Chloe Lannert: any other questions?
Chloe Lannert: That's awesome. Okay? Good job, really? Well.
Chloe Lannert: so we are going.